README.md, before:

# core-interview-test

This repository includes the YOTI Core team interview test, and its resources.

## The YOTI Core test

At Yoti we use a [microservice architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microservices).
This test asks for the development of a software encryption module to fit this
architecture.

Please implement an `encryption-server` with two endpoints, described below. The
server's interface may, for the purposes of this test, be anything convenient
for you: it could be Unix sockets, HTTP, or even pure command line driven.

Use of built-in and third party Go libraries is encouraged, particularly with
regard to serialising data/messages/commands.

We're happy for the data store to be implemented in any way: it could be an
in-memory structure (don't worry about memory usage), on-disk, or using a third
party library/database.

### store endpoint

Inputs:
 - data to encrypt (plaintext)
 - an ID (will be used later to retrieve the data)

Actions:
 - generate an AES encryption key
 - encrypt the plaintext data using the generated key
 - store the encrypted data (ciphertext)

Outputs:
 - the key used to encrypt the ciphertext

### retrieve endpoint

Inputs:
 - encryption key
 - ID

Actions:
 - retrieve the encrypted data (ciphertext)
 - decrypt the ciphertext using the provided key

Outputs:
 - the original plaintext

### Go client interface

A client interface has also been provided. Please implement a client which 
satisfies the interface in order to interact with the above server.

### Extra credits

Optional things for extra credits! Only do these if you wish to spend more
time on this. We're happy to consider answers with and without these.

1. It would be desirable for the data store key (used internally by
   `encryption-server`) to be difficult to derive from the original ID provided
   when storing the data. The intention is to provide an extra layer of
   protection of user data (hiding any information in the data IDs) if an
   attacker was able to dump the raw database.

2. Split the storage component out into its own microservice.

### Notes

All work should be committed to a git repository where the commit history can be
reviewed. github is fine, but we're also happy for a `.tar` or similar of the
git repository.

Your solution should also be easy to run/verify. To that end please feel free to
provide any further instructions, documentation, etc on how to go about the
verification process.

Commit message:

Save encrypted text to file

README.md, after:

# core-interview-test

This repository includes the YOTI Core team interview test, and its resources.

## The YOTI Core test

At Yoti we use a [microservice architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microservices).
This test asks for the development of a software encryption module to fit this
architecture.

Please implement an `encryption-server` with two endpoints, described below. The
server's interface may, for the purposes of this test, be anything convenient
for you: it could be Unix sockets, HTTP, or even pure command line driven.

Use of built-in and third party Go libraries is encouraged, particularly with
regard to serialising data/messages/commands.

We're happy for the data store to be implemented in any way: it could be an
in-memory structure (don't worry about memory usage), on-disk, or using a third
party library/database.

### store endpoint

Inputs:
 - data to encrypt (plaintext)
 - an ID (will be used later to retrieve the data)

Actions:
 - generate an AES encryption key
 - encrypt the plaintext data using the generated key
 - store the encrypted data (ciphertext)

Outputs:
 - the key used to encrypt the ciphertext

### retrieve endpoint

Inputs:
 - encryption key
 - ID

Actions:
 - retrieve the encrypted data (ciphertext)
 - decrypt the ciphertext using the provided key

Outputs:
 - the original plaintext

### Go client interface

A client interface has also been provided. Please implement a client which
satisfies the interface in order to interact with the above server.

### Extra credits

Optional things for extra credits! Only do these if you wish to spend more
time on this. We're happy to consider answers with and without these.

1. It would be desirable for the data store key (used internally by
   `encryption-server`) to be difficult to derive from the original ID provided
   when storing the data. The intention is to provide an extra layer of
   protection of user data (hiding any information in the data IDs) if an
   attacker was able to dump the raw database.

2. Split the storage component out into its own microservice.

### Notes

All work should be committed to a git repository where the commit history can be
reviewed. github is fine, but we're also happy for a `.tar` or similar of the
git repository.

Your solution should also be easy to run/verify. To that end please feel free to
provide any further instructions, documentation, etc on how to go about the
verification process.

### Usage

- Creates a local server on port 8000
- All methods are POST
- Routes are `/store/{id}` and `/retrieve/{id}`

Example curl:
```
curl -X POST \
  http://localhost:8000/store/test_1 \
  -H 'Content-Type: text/plain' \
  -d 'This is a message to encrypt'
```
```
curl -X POST \
  http://localhost:8000/retrieve/test_1 \
  -H 'Content-Type: text/plain' \
  -d xM7fE0ne8S9eX5jCtJrHXPbL4e1T39tUOkEZLonw1ao=
```
